# Online-News-Popularity-
Prediction of shares and classification of articles
With the growing of Internet on daily life, people are in a minute away to read the news or watch any entertainment or read the articles of different categories. As the growth of internet even the usage by the people of it has increased rapidly, it actually became their part of life. Nowadays as the people using the internet more they are studying the articles for their knowledge or news or of any sector from online. As the demand is increased even online platforms rivalry has increased. Due to this every online platform is striving to publish the articles in their site which have a great value and bring most shares. In this project we do prediction of shares of an article based on the data produced by ‘Mashable’ where they collected data of around 39000 articles. For this prediction we have used Random forest Regression. In this report will be discussing why the Random forest  Regression has been choose for the prediction of shares by analyzing the Data set and doing cross tabulation, what is the variance of the dataset and how much level of bias it is with-holding. Even discuss about the features selection and why decided to do some feature engineering and how it will be helpful in increasing the accuracy.  Even in this report we discuss how these predictions will be helpful for Mashable organization on their decision of publishing the articles.
	
In this paper we will see to handle the issue of classifying the articles such as entertainment, news, lifestyle, technology etc. To obtain this classification used the neural networks. In this paper we will discuss about why did we choose the neural networks for classification and what type of feature engineering has been used. At what levels of hidden layers and neurons the model is being affected at what stages model got started  getting overfitted. For classification after the output layer we used soft-max function. In this paper, a 11 layer neural network classifier  has been used and achieved around 80% of accuracy. Methods used to achieve this accuracy is constant check rate of accuracy with different layers and neurons, standardization technique and feature selection using correlation matrix.


Predicting number of shares code found in Predicting_shares.ipynb
For classification of categories need to run CategoryClasssifcation.ipynb
